# E-Portfolio--Reflection

Throughout my time with the Computer Science department at the University of St. Thomas, I was able to do many projects that I felt were useful. I also felt they were useful in the world beyond college. One of those projects was my Pong Game.

https://github.com/Jefferson-Portfolio-2024/PongGame.git

The pong game was one of my class projects for Computer Science. This project was one of my favorites as it taught me that even if something is conceptually easy, actually coding it out was very difficult to do. Conceptually a game of pong seems as though coding its functionality wouldn't be too complicated. This project showed me that Coding something as simple as pong had its own challenges. The pong game is like the original pong game that came out in 1972, but with a difficulty selector. Using p5js, and a Tweak Pane, I was to give the player the ability to customize everything about their game. 

https://github.com/Jefferson-Portfolio-2024/Maze_Game.git

The Maze Game was the final project for one of my Computer Science classes. The biggest inspiration for this project was a game called "Keep talking and Nobody Explodes". The game was about diffusing a bomb through solving a series of puzzles. However, only one player was allowed to see the bomb, while the other simply received a manual that showed the answer to each puzzle. This separation of tasks made good communication and teamwork necessary to beat the game. For my Maze Game to work, it needed to utilize WebSocket and Node.js. The game needed to use WebSocket because it was a two-player game that required two devices to communicate with each other. The big Idea of the Maze Game was to have two players see completely different things. Using WebSocket allowed me to have two webpages communicate between each other. This allowed two players to play the same game together. The main goal of this project was to do something that would require teamwork and communication between two people. I believe that this project achieved that goal.

https://github.com/Jefferson-Portfolio-2024/Student_Exam_Performance.git

This research paper was the final project for my DASC (Data Science) 360 class. This research explored what factors had the biggest effect on Student exam performances. Using exploratory factor analysis, and a structural model of my data set, I was able to find which variable had the greatest effect on Student exam performance. In the end, I was able to conclude that attendance and hours studied had the biggest effects on Student exam Scores. Therefore, A student will most likely perform better in the final exam if they show up to class every day, and study for as many hours as they can. 

These three projects all work towards the common good. The Maze Game connects to the common good because it allows two people to come together to play a simple, yet fun game that will, hopefully, make their day a little better. It also helps improve teamwork between two people which could indirectly help better the community at St. Thomas. The research paper connects to the common good because it helps out fellow St. Thomas students who are struggling on their exams. It can give students guidance on what they need to do to give them the best chance of getting great exam scores. While also showing them that showing up for classes is extremely important to getting a good grade. These things can have a positive effect on the student community here at St. Thomas, further advancing the common good. The Pong Game connects to the common good by further connecting the community though a small and simple game of pong. Having a community around the game could help people and students feel more connected through a common interest. Overall, I'm proud that these three projects are able to work towards the common good by improving the student community through building healthy connections and information that could really help them succeed at St. Thomas.

